The use of data in the video game industry has become increasingly important in recent years. With the rise of digital distribution and online gaming, companies have access to vast amounts of data on player behavior and preferences. By analyzing this data, companies can gain insights into player engagement, identify trends, and develop targeted marketing strategies. Additionally, data analysis can be used to inform game design decisions, leading to more engaging and successful games. This has resulted in a shift towards a data-driven approach to game development and marketing. In this context, the use of data has the potential to revolutionize the video game industry and shape the future of gaming.
For the analysis that you will read, we used a dataset from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/gregorut/videogamesales). In the dataset, mobile and indie games are not included, and games that have free downloads are not counted as sales, excluding massively successful games like Counter-Strike and League of Legends from an analysis like this. The dataset includes sales by regions, which are Global, North America, Europe, Japan, and Others. Also, we need to consider that these sales are cumulative data until 2016. So, newer games have fewer sales. We will do our analysis with respect to this important information. Let's dive into the data.
Here is a figure below to demonstrate which games sold the most. Firstly, we can see what the most popular games are for some regions that have global sales greater than 10 million units. We need to consider that these sales are cumulative data until 2016. So, newer games have less sales. We will make our analysis with respect to this important information.
We can see that, except in Japan and Other countries, Wii Sports is the most popular game. Wii Sports sales are great because the game was free with the Nintendo console. After Wii Sports, although it was released in 2013, GTA V is in second place in sales. This foreshadows that he will take first place in the coming years. You can say how Tetris is not the most sold game? The reason is that there are lots of versions of Tetris, and in our data, the Tetris sales are set with respect to Atari console sales, which is the original one. Tetris is also given away for free with the console, which is similar to the Wii Sports situation.
In Japan, Pokemon has a massive following and has been a cultural phenomenon for over two decades. With the Mario games, they are dominating the video game sales market there. This popularity is likely due to the franchise's origins in Japan and its ability to appeal to a wide audience, including children and adults. In contrast, Wii Sports may not have had the same cultural relevance in Japan, despite its success in other regions.
Japan is embracing its own culture and cultural products. In that case, a game can be developed based on newly popularized concepts within their culture.
As for the Other region countries, Grand Theft Auto (GTA) is popular because of its open-world gameplay and its ability to allow players to experience a world that they may not be able to in real life. Also, the series' gritty and mature themes, which include crime and violence, may appeal to some audiences in the region. Additionally, Gran Turismo 4 sales are also high, coming after Wii Sport, which is the second most sold game in that region. In countries such as the Middle East, people may have had such an orientation, as access to a car is more difficult.
Now, we will be searching for the most sold genres in different regions. There are two figures below. The one on the left is demonstrating which genres are most popular regionally, and the one on the right side is demonstrating [GDP per capita](https://www.worldometers.info/gdp/gdp-by-country/) for the countries in those regions.
Firstly, it is evident that North America's sales generate the largest portion of sales in terms of numbers. This can be attributed to both the fact that the United States has one of the world's largest economies and the fact that the gaming culture has evolved extensively in North America. Additionally, this trend can also be observed in countries outside of North America and Europe, where both sales numbers and economies are relatively lower. But we can also see that Japan's sales are half of all Europe's. So we can clearly say that, also in Japan, gaming culture has greatly evolved.
Secondly, it is apparent that the most popular genre in every region, except Japan, is action games. However, in Japan, RPGs (role-playing games) take the lead as the most popular genre. This is because Japanese gaming culture has developed around a strong affinity for role-playing games. Furthermore, unlike other countries, Japanese gamers generally have less interest in shooter games. Therefore, it can be concluded that if a video game studio intends to target the Asian market, it should prioritize producing RPGs rather than shooters.
Lastly, it is evident that globally, genres such as strategy, adventure, puzzle, simulation, and fighting are not as popular compared to action and RPG genres. So, if a studio wants to develop a game in these genres, it should know that the target audience will be a relatively small, specific group of people who love those genres.
Moreover, we will be searching for the best selling publishers and their sales in different regions in the two figures below.
When we look for the top-selling publishers, Nintendo dominates the sales for regions other than Other, and it is the most sold publisher. Especially in Japan, it is by far the best. We can easily give credit to Wii Sports and other Nintendo games for these results. Electronic Arts (EA) is following the leader in second place with its most known series, FIFA and Battlefield. In third place is Activision's and its popular series Call of Duty. It goes on for Sony, Ubisoft, and Take-Two with their popular series, Gran Turismo, Assassin's Creed, and GTA, in order.
In Europe, EA is very closely following Nintendo as the second seller in that region. In Other, EA beats Nintendo and takes the lead. There are six tables below to show the top 10 most-sold games by publishers.
